Explainer changes for how currency-related things work (#571)
WICG/turtledove: FLEDGE.md

The output of `scoreAd()` is an object with the following fields:
* desirability: Number indicating how desirable this ad is.  Any value that is zero or negative indicates that the ad cannot win the auction.  (This could be used, for example, to eliminate any interest-group-targeted ad that would not beat a contextually-targeted candidate.) The winner of the auction is the ad object which was given the highest score.
* allowComponentAuction: (optional) If the bid being scored is from a component auction and this value is not true, the bid is ignored. If not present, this value is considered false. This field must be present and true both when the component seller scores a bid, and when that bid is being scored by the top-level auction.

> * incomingBidInSellerCurrency: (optional) Provides a conversion of a bid in a multi-currency auction to seller's own currency. Please see [the section on this functionality](#53-reporting-in-multi-currency-auctions) for more details.

Reviewer: Can we add incomingBidInSellerCurrency to the example return value of `scoreAd()` on line 366?

Author: Queued up in my work copy...

The `FilterOnDataFromServer` interest group will result in fetching `https://buyer1.com/bidder_signals?publisher=<...>&interest_groups=FilterOnDataFromServer,<...>`, and then if that result has a `perInterestGroupData.FilterOnDataFromServer.priorityVector` object, then that is used just like the `priorityVector` field from the other two examples, except that it's only used for filtering, not to set the priority (unless the group has a true `enableBiddingSignalsPrioritization` field).  A [user defined function](https://github.com/privacysandbox/fledge-docs/blob/main/key_value_service_trust_model.md#support-for-user-defined-functions-udfs) could be used on the FLEDGE Key-Value server to calculate that `priorityVector` value, and hence to decide if `FilterOnDataFromServer`'s `generateBid()` method is invoked or if it's filtered out.

### 3.6 Currency Checking

If participants in the auction need to deal with multiple currencies, they can optionally take advantage of automated currency checking. All of it operates on currency tags, which are required to contain 3 upper-case ASCII letters.

> If the `generateBid()` method returns a `bidCurrency`, and the `perBuyerCurrencies` for it is specified, their consistency will be checked, and if there is a mismatch, the bid will be dropped.  Both the configuration and the returned tag must be present for checking to take place.  The returned `bidCurrency` will be passed to `scoreAd()`'s `browserSignals.bidCurrency`, with unspecified currency rendered as `'???'`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the `generateBid()` method returns a `bidCurrency`, and the `perBuyerCurrencies` for that buyer is specified, their consistency will be checked, and if there is a mismatch, the bid will be dropped.  Both the `perBuyerCurrencies` for that buyer and `bidCurrency` must be present for checking to take place.  The `perBuyerCurrencies` for that buyer will be passed to `scoreAd()`'s `browserSignals.bidCurrency`, with unspecified currency rendered as `'???'`.
```

> Checking inside `scoreAd()` happens only inside component auctions.  If the auction modifies the bid, the modified version will be checked; if not, the passed-through bid from the original buyer will be. In either case, the currency will be checked both against the component auction's `sellerCurrency` and top-level auction's `perBuyerCurrencies` as applied to the component auction.  As before, both the bid and the configuration in question must be specified for the checking to take place. If there is a mismatch, the bid will not take part in the component auction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additional currency checking after `scoreAd()` happens only inside component auctions.  If `scoreAd()` modifies the bid currency (i.e. returns a `bidCurrency`), the modified currency will be checked; if not, the passed-through bid currency from the original buyer will be. In either case, the currency will be checked both against the component auction's `sellerCurrency` and top-level auction's `perBuyerCurrencies` as applied to the component auction.  As before, both the bid and the configuration in question must be specified for the checking to take place. If there is a mismatch, the bid will not take part in the component auction.
```
I'm not sure my rewrite is correct.  Does "top-level auction's `perBuyerCurrencies` as applied to the component auction" mean that it applies to the buyer or component seller?

Author: It's not, but it's helpful, made some edits.  It's a question of whether scoreAd provides a bid, whether with bidCurrency or not.   As for the second question:t he component seller.

Conceptually, the component auction is a bidder in the top-level auction. Sometimes it forwards the buyer's original bid (including the currency tag, if any). Sometimes it provides its own bid (either including or omitting a currency tag).  That gets checked. 

(Though the perBuyerCurrencies thing is a bit different from how we behave elsewhere, so maybe a bit strange).

(If it provides a bid but not bidCurrency the check will always *pass*, but conceptually it happened).

### 3.6 Currency Checking

If participants in the auction need to deal with multiple currencies, they can optionally take advantage of automated currency checking. All of it operates on currency tags, which are required to contain 3 upper-case ASCII letters.

If the `generateBid()` method returns a `bidCurrency`, and the `perBuyerCurrencies` for that buyer is specified, their consistency will be checked, and if there is a mismatch, the bid will be dropped.  Both the `perBuyerCurrencies` for that buyer and returned `bidCurrency` must be present for checking to take place.  The returned `bidCurrency` will be passed to `scoreAd()`'s `browserSignals.bidCurrency`, with unspecified currency rendered as `'???'`.

> Currency checking after `scoreAd()` happens only inside component auctions.  If `scoreAd()` modifies the bid, the modified bid's currency will be checked; if not, the passed-through bid from the original buyer's currency will be. In either case, the currency will be checked both against the component auction's `sellerCurrency` and top-level auction's `perBuyerCurrencies` as applied to the component auction.  As before, both the bid and the configuration in question must be specified for the checking to take place. If there is a mismatch, the bid will not take part in the component auction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currency checking after `scoreAd()` happens only inside component auctions.  If the component seller's `scoreAd()` modifies the bid value, the modified bid's currency will be checked; if not, the passed-through bid from the original buyer's currency will be. In either case, the currency will be checked both against the component auction's `sellerCurrency` and top-level auction's `perBuyerCurrencies` as applied to the component auction's seller.  As before, both the bid currency and the configured currency in question must be specified for the checking to take place. If there is a mismatch, the bid will not take part in the top-level auction.
```

The `FilterOnDataFromServer` interest group will result in fetching `https://buyer1.com/bidder_signals?publisher=<...>&interest_groups=FilterOnDataFromServer,<...>`, and then if that result has a `perInterestGroupData.FilterOnDataFromServer.priorityVector` object, then that is used just like the `priorityVector` field from the other two examples, except that it's only used for filtering, not to set the priority (unless the group has a true `enableBiddingSignalsPrioritization` field).  A [user defined function](https://github.com/privacysandbox/fledge-docs/blob/main/key_value_service_trust_model.md#support-for-user-defined-functions-udfs) could be used on the FLEDGE Key-Value server to calculate that `priorityVector` value, and hence to decide if `FilterOnDataFromServer`'s `generateBid()` method is invoked or if it's filtered out.

### 3.6 Currency Checking

If participants in the auction need to deal with multiple currencies, they can optionally take advantage of automated currency checking. All of it operates on currency tags, which are required to contain 3 upper-case ASCII letters.

> If the `generateBid()` method returns a `bidCurrency`, and the `perBuyerCurrencies` for that buyer is specified, their consistency will be checked, and if there is a mismatch, the bid will be dropped.  Both the `perBuyerCurrencies` for that buyer and returned `bidCurrency` must be present for checking to take place.  The returned `bidCurrency` will be passed to `scoreAd()`'s `browserSignals.bidCurrency`, with unspecified currency rendered as `'???'`.

Reviewer: What happens if only one of `bidCurrency` or `perBuyerCurrencies` is specified?  Can we mention what happens in this case?

Author: The previous sentence does --- if both aren't specified, there is no check? Or do you think it would be clearer if that were written out explicitly?

Reviewer: The previous sentence says what happens if both are specified. I think we should document what happens if just one is specified, e.g. is the bid dropped? what is passed to `scoreAd()`?

Author: Made it more explicit.

> Currency checking after `scoreAd()` happens only inside component auctions.  If the component seller's `scoreAd()` modifies the bid value, the modified bid's currency will be checked; if not, the passed-through bid from the original buyer's currency will be. In either case, the currency will be checked both against the component auction's `sellerCurrency` and top-level auction's `perBuyerCurrencies` as applied to the component auction's seller.  As before, both the bid currency and the configured currency in question must be specified for the checking to take place. If there is a mismatch, the bid will not take part in the top-level auction.

Reviewer: Similar to above, can we mention what happens if only one is specified?

Author: Likewise

      'componentSeller': 'https://www.some-other-ssp.com',
      'interestGroupOwner': 'https://www.example-dsp.com/',
      'renderURL': 'https://cdn.com/url-of-winning-creative.wbn',
      'bid': bidValue,

>       'bidCurrency': ...,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      'bidCurrency': 'USD',
```
I feel like we should put something more explicit here.  I don't feel strongly though, I was just thinking it might help folks understand the type of the data.

Author: Done

      'desirability': desirabilityScoreForWinningAd,
      'topLevelSellerSignals': outputOfTopLevelSellersReportResult,
      'dataVersion': versionFromKeyValueResponse,
      'modifiedBid': modifiedBidValue,
      'highestScoringOtherBid': highestScoringOtherBidValue,

>       'highestScoringOtherBidCurrency': ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      'highestScoringOtherBidCurrency': 'EUR`
```
I feel like we should put something more explicit here.  I don't feel strongly though, I was just thinking it might help folks understand the type of the data.

Author: Done

    }
    ```

>     * `bidCurrency` and `highestScoringOtherBidCurrency` provide (highly redacted) information on what currency the corresponding numbers are in. Please refer to the section on [Reporting in Multi-Currency Auctions](#53-reporting-in-multi-currency-auctions) for more details.

Reviewer: What does "highly redacted" mean here?  I feel like the information is fairly explicit, verified and only leaks contextual information.

Reviewer: I don't understand.  If we don't actually specify the concrete buyer currency, what do we specify?  This also seems to contradict the "information on the currency of the corresponding numbers".

Author: Well, that's what section 5.3 talks about...?

Reviewer: "highly redacted" sounds like it's always redacted.  Can we reword this?  I'd suggest one of:

1. instead of "(highly redacted)", saying ", potentially redacted (e.g. redacted if [explain when redaction could happen])", or
2. if there is a simple way to codify the logic then saying something simple like "bidCurrency is in the buyer's perBuyerCurrency if that matches generateBid()'s bidCurrency, otherwise sellerCurrency"

Author: Again, if explaining the rules here were possible, I wouldn't need an entire session about it. Maybe I should actually say less?

(Also PTAL the other changes)

These signals were requested in [issue 435](https://github.com/WICG/turtledove/issues/435). The signals are intented to ship in Chrome M114, they will no longer be available for event level reporting when event level reporting is retired.

#### 5.3 Reporting in Multi-Currency Auctions

In auctions that involve multiple currencies, there may be values with different units floating around, which makes aggregated information incomprehensible, and event-level information hard to process, potentially requiring participants to interpret currencies of jurisdictions they do no business in.

To help deal with this scenario, an optional mode is available that converts all bid-related information to seller's preferred currency (in component auctions, reporting for it is for that component's seller). This is configured via the `sellerCurrency` setting in each auction configuration.

> Regardless of configuration, the bid passed to `reportWin()` and `reportResult()` is always the bid that participated in that particular level of the auction (which, for top-level auction `reportResult()`, may be the bid altered by the component auction), subject to the usual rounding rules. Since passing the returned currency tags around could leak an unacceptable amount of information, the values provided for `browserSignals.bidCurrency` to those methods are the currencies required by the auction configuration in this context, or `'???'` if there isn't one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regardless of configuration, the bid passed to `reportWin()` and `reportResult()` is always the bid that participated in that particular level of the auction (which, for top-level auction `reportResult()`, may be the bid altered by the component auction), subject to the usual rounding rules. Since passing the returned currency tags around could leak an unacceptable amount of information, the values provided for `browserSignals.bidCurrency` to those methods are the currencies required by the auction configuration (i.e. `sellerCurrency` and `perBuyerCurrencies`) in this context, or `'???'` if there isn't one.
```

Author: Done

(Warning: `reportResult` did not follow this rule in Chrome earlier than M116)

All other values, including `highestScoringOtherBid` and winning bids provided to private aggregation and debug event-level loss reporting depend on the `sellerCurrency` setting.

If `sellerCurrency` is not set, all bids in those other ("mixed currency") contexts are passed as-is, and all the corresponding currency tags (`bidCurrency`, `highestScoringOtherBidCurrency`) are redacted to `'???'`.

> If `sellerCurrency` is set, `scoreAd()` for an auction is responsible for converting bids not already in that currency to `sellerCurrency`, via the `incomingBidInSellerCurrency` field of its return value. A bid already explicitly in the seller's currency can not be changed by `incomingBidInSellerCurrency`.  If neither the original bid is explicitly in proper currency nor an `incomingBidInSellerCurrency` is specified, a value of 0 is used. All currency tags for reporting in those "mixed currency" contexts will be set to `sellerCurrency`.

Reviewer: what is "proper currency"? can we expand that a bit or define that term previously?

Author: sellerCurrency? I guess I could be explicit?
Should I just give up on using synonyms? :(

Reviewer: I'd always err on the side of explicit, esp when `sellerCurrency` is as many words as proper currency.

Author: Done

> If `sellerCurrency` is set, `scoreAd()` for an auction is responsible for converting bids not already in that currency to `sellerCurrency`, via the `incomingBidInSellerCurrency` field of its return value. A bid already explicitly in the seller's currency can not be changed by `incomingBidInSellerCurrency`.  If neither the original bid is explicitly in proper currency nor an `incomingBidInSellerCurrency` is specified, a value of 0 is used. All currency tags for reporting in those "mixed currency" contexts will be set to `sellerCurrency`.

Reviewer: when you say "a value of 0 is used", does this mean the bid is dropped from the auction?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `sellerCurrency` is set, `scoreAd()` for an auction is responsible for converting bids not already in that currency to `sellerCurrency`, via the `incomingBidInSellerCurrency` field of its return value. A bid already explicitly in the seller's currency can not be changed by `incomingBidInSellerCurrency`.  If neither the original bid is explicitly in proper currency nor an `incomingBidInSellerCurrency` is specified, a value of 0 is reported. All currency tags for reporting in those "mixed currency" contexts will be set to `sellerCurrency`.
```

These signals were requested in [issue 435](https://github.com/WICG/turtledove/issues/435). The signals are intented to ship in Chrome M114, they will no longer be available for event level reporting when event level reporting is retired.

#### 5.3 Reporting in Multi-Currency Auctions

In auctions that involve multiple currencies, there may be values with different units floating around, which makes aggregated information incomprehensible, and event-level information hard to process, potentially requiring participants to interpret currencies of jurisdictions they do no business in.

To help deal with this scenario, an optional mode is available that converts all bid-related information to seller's preferred currency (in component auctions, reporting for it is for that component's seller). This is configured via the `sellerCurrency` setting in each auction configuration.

> Regardless of configuration, the bid passed to `reportWin()` and `reportResult()` is always the bid that participated in that particular level of the auction (which, for top-level auction `reportResult()`, may be the bid altered by the component auction), subject to the usual rounding rules. Since passing the returned currency tags around could leak an unacceptable amount of information, the values provided for `browserSignals.bidCurrency` to those methods are the currencies required by the auction configuration (i.e. `sellerCurrency` and `perBuyerCurrencies`), or `'???'` if unspecified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regardless of configuration, the bid passed to `reportWin()` and `reportResult()` is always the bid that participated in that particular level of the auction (which, for top-level auction `reportResult()`, may be the bid altered by the component auction seller's `scoreAd()`), subject to the usual rounding rules. Since passing the returned currency tags around could leak an unacceptable amount of information, the values provided for `browserSignals.bidCurrency` to those methods are the currencies required by the auction configuration (i.e. `sellerCurrency` and `perBuyerCurrencies`), or `'???'` if unspecified.
```

(Warning: `reportResult` did not follow this rule in Chrome earlier than M116)

All other values, including `highestScoringOtherBid` and winning bids provided to private aggregation and debug event-level loss reporting depend on the `sellerCurrency` setting.

> If `sellerCurrency` is not set, all bids in those other ("mixed currency") contexts are passed as-is, and all the corresponding currency tags (`bidCurrency`, `highestScoringOtherBidCurrency`) are redacted to `'???'`.

Reviewer: So to verify, if the auction config's `perBuyerCurrency` for a buyer and `generateBid()`'s `bidCurrency` for a buyer are both `USD`, but `sellerCurrency` is not set, then `browserSignals.bidCurrency` is `???`?

Author: Yes

Reviewer: In that case, can we clarify or rephrase the term "mixed currency" here?  It feels like it could be homogeneous currencies but underspecified, for example if `perBuyerCurrency` and `bidCurrency` match but `sellerCurrency` is not specified.

Author: This is supposed to define it as not being the cases listed on line 821....

Reviewer: This needs to be made clearer.  Perhaps use the term "matching currencies" on line 821 and very clearly define the conditions when this term/situation applies, and then use the term "non-matching currencies" here and and very clearly define that this applies whenever the conditions for "matching currencies" are not met.

Author: That's not the term I am using; but at any rate, rephrased some.

These signals were requested in [issue 435](https://github.com/WICG/turtledove/issues/435). The signals are intented to ship in Chrome M114, they will no longer be available for event level reporting when event level reporting is retired.

#### 5.3 Reporting in Multi-Currency Auctions

In auctions that involve multiple currencies, there may be values with different units floating around, which makes aggregated information incomprehensible, and event-level information hard to process, potentially requiring participants to interpret currencies of jurisdictions they do no business in.

To help deal with this scenario, an optional mode is available that converts all bid-related information to seller's preferred currency (in component auctions, reporting for it is for that component's seller). This is configured via the `sellerCurrency` setting in each auction configuration.

> Regardless of configuration, the bid passed to `reportWin()` and `reportResult()` is always the bid that participated in that particular level of the auction (which, for top-level auction `reportResult()`, may be the bid altered by the component auction seller's `scoreAd()`), subject to the usual rounding rules. Since passing the returned currency tags around could leak an unacceptable amount of information, the values provided for `browserSignals.bidCurrency` to those methods are the currencies required by the auction configuration (i.e. `sellerCurrency` and `perBuyerCurrencies`), or `'???'` if unspecified.

Reviewer: I think we should say "bid price" if we mean the floating point value, otherwise it's possible that "bid" is interpreted to be the bid price and the bid currency.
```suggestion
Regardless of configuration, the bid price passed to `reportWin()` and `reportResult()` is always the bid price that participated in that particular level of the auction (which, for top-level auction `reportResult()`, may be the bid price altered by the component auction seller's `scoreAd()`), subject to the usual rounding rules. Since passing the returned currency tags around could leak an unacceptable amount of information, the values provided for `browserSignals.bidCurrency` to those methods are the currencies required by the auction configuration (i.e. `sellerCurrency` and `perBuyerCurrencies`), or `'???'` if unspecified.
```

(Warning: `reportResult` did not follow this rule in Chrome earlier than M116)

> All other values, including `highestScoringOtherBid` and winning bids provided to private aggregation and debug event-level loss reporting depend on the `sellerCurrency` setting. We refer to those usages as "potentially mixed currency" contexts, as they can involve information from multiple bids, and hence potentially multiple currencies.

Reviewer: This seems to contradictory: the first sentence seems to indicate that everything is in `sellerCurrency`, but the second sentence calls this potentially mixed currency and "potentially multiple currencies".
If it would be helpful, feel free to put some time on my calendar to discuss this further and we could work together on this.  I may just not be understanding this very well.

Author: What it's trying to convey is that this information originally (potentially) comes from different bids, and therefore it's important to convert it to sellerCurrency.

Author: Done, please see https://github.com/morlovich/turtledove/blob/fledge-currency/FLEDGE.md#53-reporting-in-multi-currency-auctions for a preview

> If `sellerCurrency` is not set, all bids in potentially mixed currency contexts are passed as-is, and all the corresponding currency tags (`bidCurrency`, `highestScoringOtherBidCurrency`) are redacted to `'???'`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `sellerCurrency` is not set, all bid prices in potentially mixed currency contexts are passed as-is, and all the corresponding currency tags (`bidCurrency`, `highestScoringOtherBidCurrency`) are redacted to `'???'`.
```

> If `sellerCurrency` is set, `scoreAd()` for an auction is responsible for converting bids not already in that currency to `sellerCurrency`, via the `incomingBidInSellerCurrency` field of its return value. A bid already explicitly in the seller's currency cannot be changed by `incomingBidInSellerCurrency`.  If neither the original bid is explicitly in `sellerCurrency` nor an `incomingBidInSellerCurrency` is specified, a value of 0 is used for reporting in potentially mixed currency contexts. All currency tags for reporting in those potentially mixed currency contexts will be set to `sellerCurrency`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `sellerCurrency` is set, `scoreAd()` for an auction is responsible for converting bids not already in the seller's currency to the seller's currency, via the `incomingBidInSellerCurrency` field of its return value. A bid already explicitly in the seller's currency cannot be changed by `incomingBidInSellerCurrency`.  If neither the original bid is explicitly in `sellerCurrency` nor an `incomingBidInSellerCurrency` is specified, a value of 0 is used for reporting in potentially mixed currency contexts. All currency tags for reporting in those potentially mixed currency contexts will be set to `sellerCurrency`.
```

Author: Done
